Michael and I pick up our conversation from last month.
Focusing on what he feels were the roots of control,
the Egyptian Pharaoh Akhenaten and his followers
who Michael calls the Autanus.
The conversation covers much ground
including the need to honor the cycles of life.
In particular the season of destruction.
In our last conversation we covered
an awful lot of ground about the architects of control
and how it was even working its way through
and covering up the traces of history and culture
of the ancient, very refined Irish civilization.
But we left it off at Akhenaten and Nefertiti
which is really a big place in the story
that you're presenting.
You're saying Akhenaten may have actually been
a very negative influence on cultures through to this day.
And I think I mentioned at that point too
that you're saying that there's evidence
that his wife Nefertiti actually has Euro features,
European features.
Yeah, Western ancestors.
Western features and that their daughter Scota
moved to Ireland and ended her life there.
Okay, let's pick up the Akhenaten story.
What's the problem with Akhenaten?
Well, I'm one of, I think as far as I've been able
to count, two authors that take a negative view
of this lionized man
and I think when you review his life,
his profile, and his theology,
and also what he did to Egypt, just physically,
I don't think there can be any doubt
that the man was a raving lunatic, like a psychopath.
Don't forget in my work I'm dating
the architects of control from him.
So of course, since they've commissioned the history
and he's their big chief, of course they're going to
not see that and they're gonna lionize him
and make him look in a good light.
Which is what has happened.
He's the Christ before the Christ, he's the great healer,
the great revolutionary, the great reformer,
the great sun king and all of this kind of concept.
And many monarchs and potentates
are really basing themselves on the pharaohs in general
and on Akhenaten and Tutankhanum particularly.
But the fascinating thing is that once
you again bend that rule.
When you flip it around, do a bit of a Columbo here
and say, "Well, maybe if we look at it this way"
and you turn that fact around,
suddenly a whole other reality opens
which I think explains the world better.
Part of that is his ancestry, his wife, his daughters.
He had six daughters one of whom is supremely important
in Irish mythology and Scottish since the word
Scotland actually bears her name.
Heavy duty stuff there.
But once you get around the idea
that he wasn't a totally together person, mentally.
Then you start getting into interesting concepts
about what solar worship is.
Why do these people refer to themselves
as the princes of light?
What is light?
Does light have some negative properties
we don't understand?
Is there a theology there connecting
to the worship of light?
And is Judea a Christianity perhaps based on that?
Are all the religions solar religions?
And you say these are basically Atenus
based on Atenus?
I use the word Atenus, because the god
that Akhenaten worshiped was called Aten or Aton.
Many letters transliterated down through time variance
changes and if you change the d to a t you have Adon,
the Adonai which Adon was a Phoenician god,
Adonai was a Judaic god, even if I use
the word Judaic in parentheses there.
And that's no different as any Jew knows
but we may not reveal, may not be too happy to accept.
Adonai is Jehovah.
So the Jehovah of the Bible is the Adon, is the Aton,
is the Adonai, is Oden.
Okay, from Norse mythology?
The Norse, remember the West, East thing again.
So this is a universal God.
Except that some people would argue
and rightly so that Yahweh, Jehovah
is sort of a composite deity.
They're right because they all were.
Many gods of the world were actually composite gods
brought together by the merging of different groups,
and different cults, and different races.
So we're going back to the woman
in Akhenaten's life.
We're looking at replacing the religion of the day,
which was based on the worship of Amun.
Was that religion very similar to the druidic
in that it was based around the feminine principal
and the Goddess?
The Amunust and the Druidic connection
in my eyes is identical.
And if there's differences,
as far as I can see it's cosmetic.
They not only had a perfectly balanced
and that's not to say they didn't have reprehensible
aspects of their theology, I'm not promoting them.
I'm just, you know, pointing out --
You're just talking about similarities.
Yeah. I'm not an amunist.
I'm not trying to say there better than the Atunus
or whatever, I'm just trying to define
that they were these two different groups
and they had great differences.
But the beautiful thing about the amunist system
was it was tripartite.
It wasn't just a polarity of masculine and feminine,
they even had a third principal.
Just like you have Osaris, Horis, and Isis.
As soon as you see the triad principal,
you know you're talking druidism, right from that point on
because the druids are the well known people
who worship the three and the triangle
and they had their own trinity.
You know you're talking the aria of Northern India
because they had their Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva.
That trinity, that concept is all over the ancient
solar cults and stellar cults of the world.
That's just one small anecdote.
But I do believe their ideology, their pantheon,
their cosmology was much more balanced
than what the Atenists came up with.
So the Atenists came up with
a solo worship of what is perceived
as the male aspect as the sun.
Absolutely.
And so this became monotheism.
And now as a result,
it wiped out and it was intended to wipe out
any of the earth, essentially the,
what is the word I'm looking for?
When you're talking about the more balanced
natural order of the religions of the day.
Yeah, sure.
So it was intended specifically
to wipe that out.
Aggressively so.
In fact all monotheism,
as many people like Leonard Schilling
have pointed out, is aggressive from point go.
It is exclusionary, not inclusive.
You see, in the period before the Atenists rules
every other culture, Phoenician, Semetic,
Cretin, Grecian, Hyksos, whatever.
All of these people basically lived together in harmony.
They could worship in harmony
and they saw commonality between their various gods.
In fact, many gods are the same god under
different names.
When the Atenists come along and they make this
absolutely,
they were henotheistic in the sense that they picked
one god for many because
Aton did as a god predate Akhenaten,
he was worshipped by Akhenaten's forefathers.
Thutmosis I think one of them was an Atenists as well,
yeah, they were there.
But he selected this god of light
and lionized him more and promoted this.
And by doing that it was very aggressively exclusionary.
And this included the feminine aspects,
the matriarchal cults also.
And at the same time,
that period, that 18th dynasty,
was known for perpetuating artwork
for the first time even,
where the mother, the father, and the children,
are all depicted together.
But under the rays of the sun.
But that's bogus. Exactly.
This is a propaganda, you see.
And don't forget it was only his family.
The chief Atenists.
Again it was an exclusionary thing.
But see, I mean Akhenaten went as far as to
prevent Kiya, his second wife,
from even using her full name,
which was an Armanist name,
and it meant the Vulture Goddess,
which was again the old Pantheons.
She could only, you know, he wouldn't allow that.
In fact I think he only gave her the permission
finally, and that was because you know,
he just had to.
She was the only one who was able to bend the rule
at all to be able to use some of her titles
that were previously from an Armanist basis,
you know, everybody else was absolutely no way, no deal.
I mean he was very strict.
They went to bed as soon as the sun set.
They were pathologically afraid of the dark.
They cancelled the Osirian cycle of the underworld,
which psychologically, if Freud were sitting here,
he'd go, "Well, we have a problem there for sure."
You're negating the dark side right away.
So don't you see when I would say that
there's some psychopathy involved,
I can back that up. I can back that up.
If you are denying the underworld cycle,
you are cancelling out the dark side,
even the physical darkness?
That is as good a definition of schizoid
as I could possibly come up with.
I mean, there's people locked up here, you know,
raving lunatics operate on that level.
So this man was a Pharaoh but with meglomania,
with a psychopathy.
But he had the power, you see, to change Egypt.
And change ultimately the world because
as we hoped again, two of his descendents ended up
backing out of the ancient homeland, you see.
So okay, let's say, you know Nefertiti,
they had their six daughters.
Scota makes her way back to Ireland,
and you're saying that Nefertiti may have been
also what appears to be of Caucasian heritage as well.
I think she was a member of what is
to be specific about it,
she was a Scythian, what's known as a Scythian.
And can you explain what that is?
Scythian technically is a Celt,
one of their homelands was in Turkey
but they were known to be, the Irish annals
clearly tell you that they were European, you know.
But because of these catastrophes,
they were displaced groups were in all sorts
of different places.
There's a city called Scythopolis in Galilee
which is purported to be a Scythian capital.
So basically in Galilee they were settled.
In Turkey they were, in Jordan they were,
and all through Turkey and Europe
and Anatolia, Cappadocia, these were their headquarters.
The reason why we think, although I would think
I'm the only one who thinks she's Scythian,
but as you say the rumor was that she may have had
Western people, Lorraine Evans and a few other scholars
have sort of dabbled in that,
is just the look of her face.
Yes, she does look very distinctly different
than the other queens of that time.
That's right. And also no ancestry, no history.
It's like it's been suppressed or whatever.
To me, it's a no-brainer because her daughter,
her chief daughter whose nickname was Scotia.
Scythians weren't called Scythians in Scythian times,
they were called the Scots.
The Scots. Okay.
In their own era. They were also called Musagete.
They were also called Saga, or Shatka, which means stag.
The stag man. Satka. Staga. Saga.
Where we get the modern word "sage."
So they were the sages, they were the wise ones.
So even then they took a name that meant the wise ones,
you're dealing with the wise ones here.
They're descendants of the Arya ultimately,
before they became Atenists, they were all basically
the same gang of the people that I'm talking about,
the Arya, the Druids, okay?
Although they became what I believe corrupted
by the time they became Atenists in Egypt,
they were goners.
They were corrupted. Okay.
Yeah. So Scota's own nickname,
she was really called Meritaten,
which means the beautiful one of Aton, right?
We get the biblical word Mary from the Egyptian meri.
And I think there's a connection to the plant myrrh
is where we get the word Mary.
Ralph Ellis and others think it actually just means
the beautiful one, it's the origin of Mary in the Bible.
So Meritaten's nickname is the name of the Scythian people,
and her mother is Nefertiti,
the beautiful one who has come, right,
with her aquiline features that even
(mumbles) said, "I think she's Western," you know.
It's pretty obvious, right.
So these characters were Scythian, Egyptian,
Akhenaten's own family.
After the cataclysms, after the famine
that happened in Egypt,
after the displacement or let's say expulsion
of Akhenaten, they needed to leave.
And they took refuge amongst a group
called the Hyksos who were also Scythian in my view.
These Hyksos have now been 100% proven
to be the same people as the Israelites.
There is no doubt about it,
and there can't be in the mind of any sane reader at all.
Which becomes interesting,
because there is some work by Laurence Gardner
for example who would say that Akhenaten
and Moses are one in the same.
Some others would say, "No actually, they were brothers."
But they're putting them in the same ballpark
in terms of that migration.
But he's not the first.
Conor MacDari was already dealing with that
at the turn of the century.
Then it was picked up very strongly in 1930
with Sigmund Freud whose last book was
Moses and Monotheism.
Immanuel Velikovsky looked at it,
Freud's colleague Dr. Karl Abraham very much believed.
In fact if you want to get into specifics,
Karl Abraham believed they were the same,
and Freud wouldn't go so far.
He said, "Let's keep it open."
But he was in the circle, he was a priest
in the circle of Akhenaten,
meaning Moses was a priest in the circle
of Akhenaten.
But Abrahams had already gone,
"No man, face it, they're one in the same thing."
What do you think?
They're one in the same thing.
Okay, Akhenaten and Moses are one in the same.
So let's proceed with that.
Well then this opens a whole ball of wax.
Yeah. Lots of implications.
Well the one thing that Freud always pointed to
was the fact that Moses, meaning son of, or son of,
is found in Tuthmosis, you know, Ramosis,
Amosis, it's an Egyptian name.
Ramosis means son of Ra.
So Moses is already an Egyptian name.
The raising of the standard.
Tithmosis the fourth, by the way.
Right, Tithmosis is Akhenaten's father.
That's right.
No, Tithmosis the fourth, is.
Akhenaten is Tithmosis the fourth I believe.
Right, Amenhotep the fourth, maybe I'm wrong.
No you're right. Amenhotep the fourth.
Okay and his father was Tithmosis the fourth.
But there is that famous name.
In fact when you get into that Tith.
That's a big one right there.
Because the t's are really meant to be d's.
T-U-T for Tut is where you get the word Chtutin,
we're back to the Western connection,
the Tudors of England, alright.
Where does this T-U, where, Tutar.
You know, a teacher is a tutor.
Where do all of these T-U-Ts come from
that we find even in Egypt?
Atlantean.
You see, and that is really D-V-D,
the d's, the sound of d can sound like t,
when you put the d back, you have the D-U-D
or the D-V-D which is D-V-D is David, the Davids.
So Tithmosis is really a David,
the commander of Aton, a commander of Amon,
you know, a commander.
At this point when Akhenaten
has to leave Egypt.
You're saying that's where in the story
the Bible would pick up of Moses leading his people
through these times, these very Spartan times
in the desert.
Exactly, we don't exactly know what happened
to Akhenaten himself.
A great contingent of his people went to Thanos,
which is up in the Delta to take refuge.
And then the Bible story talking about the holy people
leaving and being taken into captivities,
we're talking about this era.
The expulsion of the so-called Israelites from Egypt,
it was a cover story.
A fictional account.
I've described the Bible as nothing more
as the chronicle of the Atenists,
or a book of the Pharaohs, which it is,
if you really know what you're reading.
And the most fascinating thing goes back
to Scota herself.
She ends up marrying a person that is
of monumental importance in Irish legends.
Which was King Mile, M-I-L-E,
where we get the word militia from, you know.
And he was a Scythian king from a very prestigious line
equal to the Pharaohs.
Maybe a little bit less, but certainly
from a mystery school point of view,
from an esoteric point of view,
they were on the same rank as the Pharaohs.
These are Scythian Celts.
The rumor is, or the annals are saying
that Mile and Scota and their whole gang,
they are basically the same people as the Atenists.
There's no difference between these people.
They start migrating back to their ancestral homes.
They don't just go off elsewhere,
they make a sort of little journey.
Now in Western history you will hear about these people.
There are certain Celtic books, books on the Irish history
that will pick up about the story of the Atenists,
but they always only stop at Spain.
Because when these people moved west
and got to Spain.
What about Ralph Ellis' work?
Ralph Ellis is pretty much doing the same thing
when it comes to the Scythians.
Unfortunately there's a little glitch there,
plus he's very weak on the Scythians.
He has not been able to make the Hyksos-Scythian connection.
For whatever reason he talks about Cretins,
he talks about they maybe have been connected
with the Philistines,
and this is not, he's not the only one,
there seems to be some strange reason.
Oh I know what it is actually,
it's because to do that opens up the whole
west to east movement of the elements of civilization
which they won't touch.
Alright. So let's go on then.
So a very important question though.
But the thing is that now you have this migration.
As I said Celtic scholars will tacitly admit,
"Oh yeah, well we know about the Milesians"
"and the potential of the Egyptian princess"
"that came with them coming over from Spain."
But they will rarely go further back than that,
you see, unfortunately.
But now we have the evidence through
the Ralph Ellis', the Moustafa Gadallas,
and Ahmed Osmans,
this is coming to light
previously as I said through Sigmund Freud
and Karl (mumbles) and what have you.
And the incredible story is that her name meant Scythian,
she was the woman who finally gave her name to Scotland.
But before Ireland was called Scota,
before Scotland was called Scota, or Scota,
Ireland was the name.
It's because the Irish went over to Scotland
and brought their princess' name
that Scotland took its name.
Ireland was once called Scota.
Scota's physical grave is in County Kerry, you know.
And Lorraine Evans will tell you in her book
Kingdom of the Ark about all the other Egyptian artifacts
that have literally been dug up and can't be explained.
And she talks about Nefertiti,
she's made the Nefertiti connection,
she's made the connection to Akhenaten.
So it's not Akhenaten himself,
nor even for that matter Tutankhamun,
you see or even Aya, right, the Pharaoh Aya.
We're not talking about them physically themselves
coming out to the West,
but their descendants.
Certainly Scota, the connection is there.
The Irish legends talk about it,
the Scottish legends talk about it.
You see, basically it's a well-known anecdote
in the ancient Celtic mythology
as the coming of the Egyptian princess.
So it's effect was by hooking up with.
Now we're full circle.
Now we're full circle, because look at the dates.
I believe that in Irish mythology there's a,
they know the story of the coming of
what they call the Milesians after King Mile
and his wife.
And I think I read in your book that
King Mile was a little off-center.
His son was.
Oh his son was off-center, Don.
Adon. Adoni. But Mile's son is called Don.
And his other one, I mean the names are amazing
when you get into this.
Okay, sorry I got that one wrong.
So it was his son.
You know what his other son was called? Aron.
That's not biblical. Right, so.
When they arrived, then we notice a date. 500 BC.
Rome has just risen, 700 BC.
You know, you can chart their movement I believe across.
Ralph has done this, Ralph Ellis has done this
to a certain extent.
And you can take it yourself
and see this incredible paradigm
coming through Greece, Athens. Athen, Aton. Athens.
You know, you can see this movement.
But this is considerably later
because you're talking Akhenaten was actually 1300 years BC,
now we're talking 500 years BC.
Right, because this is a movement.
This is a decision making process,
there's the moving to Spain.
In between the move to Spain,
they've already moved back to Scythia.
Mile and Scota.
And these people, you know, there's a movement here.
How do you work out how this could be done
in this timeline?
This is an interesting timeline.
And then then there are (mumbles) but we go through that
to show you how this figures.
It's hard to in a few minutes explain.
We only have a few minutes
so let's just, you move onto the net effect of it.
And that effect is when the Milesians get to Ireland
about 500 BC, you have they're starting to,
you have a campaign of genocide again
where the matriarchal cults of Ireland
who are ancestral, these are going,
they're hardcore Arya, they're very pure, Druidic schools
start to be slowly annihilated.
And that process of cannibalization
and colonization takes about 1,000 years.
Which will then of course do what?
That will bring us up past the era of Christianity.
500 AD.
Yeah.
So the rise of Christianity is commensurate,
not just with the rise of the Templars
in the 13th century and all of that,
but the rise of Christianity about 300 AD
is commensurate with the takeover of Ireland and Britain
by these Milesians.
The Atenists who were ensconced,
these Milesian, Atenists, Hyksos, Israelite,
whatever you want to call them, the Judaics, the Tudors,
there's a million names for them.
These Egyptian Atenists, by the time that they had arrived
in Ireland they were working on the destruction
of the Druidic order,
the destruction of that old megolithic way,
which involves the mysteries of the earth
and the mysteries of all sorts of things.
And the cannibilization of their knowledge
and their gnosis was going slowly I believe.
I think they even had a lot of problems.
So they called on their brothers in Rome
to come and help as a mercenary action.
They've done this multiple times,
it's not the first time.
In fact the whole Alexander the Great thing
conquering, going back to Egypt
out of Greece is actually a tentacle of what
I'm also talking about.
These are not as they are portrayed in history
as we talked about earlier.
They're different than the established reading of history.
These were actually mercenary actions
funded by this Atenist kaballah that I write about.
More specifically the Roman,
what we call in history the Roman army coming
to conquer Britain and the Gauls of France,
Julius Caesar and all these Sadists coming out there.
These were merely lackeys of the Atenist Pharonic guys
who ruled over these people.
History makes it look like these psychopaths
did it of their own free will to empire build.
No. Not true.
So the destruction of the Druidic culture
begins about 500 BC and continues for approximately
1000 years which then brings us up
to the creation of what I would consider
the cannibalized, corrupted form of Druidism,
which is, you know, to be blunt about it,
Judeo-Christianity.
And along the way,
which is I think an important note,
that the Great Library in Alexandria was burnt,
slashed and burned, so all the knowledge
from the past was lost there as well.
Yeah. That's right.
And that was a result of the Roman empire.
Remember the mercenaries?
Yep.
These mercenaries were told where to go, what to do.
Right.
No different than, they accept don't they
that Henry the eighth literally sent out
the dissolution of the monastery?
They can accept that because it's recent history,
but when you say that in Caesar's time or
Alexander's time it was deliberate,
you know, you're crazy.
So it was deliberate.
And so now we have stamped out the vestiges
of the Druidic and the highly civilized cultures
of that time.
Yeah. Absolutely.
And then you're left with basically
a complete monstrosity.
A travesty.
And there's really a huge component to this,
and this is what I want to get into with you now.
And that is that the feminine essence,
in essence is stamped out in terms of
the wisdom and power of the feminine, the goddess,
and so forth is gone by this point, right?
Yeah.
And then we look now
what we have as a society and we can,
I think we can certainly see the effects of
having removed the feminine aspect of the wisdom
in the triad from the equation.
You get what you have now.
And all of these essentially,
the concepts are almost purely masculine
what we're looking at today.
Hierarchical, masculine, patristic.
Exactly. So, here we are.
We've kind of followed this train of thought a little bit
and to see the rest of it I highly recommend
everybody read these books.
I think it's important to string it all together,
but we don't have time to string the whole thing together.
Let's say, here we are now.
We're seeing the effects of it.
We've seen that society has been ravaged
and we're turning into automatons under this.
What is it, what do you see is reemerging?
And what is it going to take?
And how important is the feminine essence
in terms of being injected back into all of this
to recover ourselves?
Well I'm glad that you use the term feminine
rather than the word female because what we're talking about
here is expressions of thought, not gender.
And of course the Druidic concept
was entirely matriarchal, that has to be understood.
In fact right up even through the Scythian era,
it was the same, you know.
And one of the other functions of the Druids, by the way,
they were called the servants or keepers of truth.
The secondary function of the Druids
was the healing of the earth in a very profound way.
So when we think of Druids,
we see the Stonehenge portals
which looks like the doorway, the gateway.
We see the megaliths aligned to the constellations.
This is because the Druids were very, very conscious
that their goddess, their Ari, Rhea,
whatever you want to call her, Demeter.
Their goddess was damaged.
They didn't think of the earth today as we do
as some thing out there, you know,
that could be controlled and probed and raped and looted.
They saw it as a living entity that had been scarred
by these cataclysms that they understood had taken place.
And therefore the mound building had many functions.
It was to help to galvanize the community.
It was also like you see in Egypt,
you know with some of the very tall towers
and even the pyramid itself
so that if it was ever to happen again,
documents and icons and relics could be saved,
because the doors are above the water line.
So there's practical aspects, there's ritual aspects,
there was social aspects.
The picking up of very small rocks to bring them,
like at Medb's cairn in Ireland and Carrowkeel
and so many of these others
and people marvel at how it was done.
That galvanized the community ritually.
And in those days, you'll often see the concept
of the Egyptian pillar that's lying flat,
and then they erect it.
You know, it's called the djed pillar.
That was again a ritual that was very ceremonial.
It was done very precisely at certain times of the year
and the ceremony was about reerecting
that which had fallen.
The pole had shifted, there was a chaos,
there was a cataclysm,
and the raising of the pillar or the obelisk
was a sign that order is restored again.
You know, the Masons and all these people
have co-opted this of course for their own purposes.
But the fundamental principle was that
Mother Earth has been damaged, right?
And because Mother Earth has been damaged,
the psyche of man has been damaged.
So then you might also say then
that the third function of the teacher, the elder,
the Arya, to deal with man's fragmented consciousness.
There's a relationship between consciousness
and matter, you see.
So anyone today just like a medic
or a paramedic will deal with the victim of a car wreck.
The Druids were people who not only realized that
they now have an incredible responsibility
to not only heal their earth geomantically,
but take on this fragmented creature,
who was completely out of his tree.
Like we said, consciousness shattered into multiple parts.
In my work I've established that the ego,
that which we know as the ego,
is basically the ghost that arose
from the grave of the self.
These subsequent traumas that we talked about
have so fragmented man's mind in recent times
that what left, what was left of that circuit board,
that still had a little beeping action,
I describe it as sort of the door man
in the great corporation.
There he is in his office, you know,
in his blue suit with his torch groveling
around in the dark at the bottom of the corporation.
He's very officious, you know.
He thinks of himself as the owner
but we need him to kind of thing.
He's keeping the lights on, he's cleaning the floors,
and making sure everything is working.
That's the ego.
That is basically the ghost that arose from
the grave of the self.
So the Druids, or any teacher, update this,
fast forward again to any great master or
person who is working with these traditions
are trying to heal.
Mandalas for instance, you know,
all forms of Jungian analysis,
all of this is doing the same thing.
The idea being that consciousness was fragmented
and we are fragmented beings.
Coming back to the essence of your question though,
because of the fragmentation, i.e. the trauma,
we have now a problem between two paradigms
that can be expressed in many, many ways.
Ying and yang, prolific devouring,
nagual, tonal.
The best way I like to explain it is
hierarchical and holarchic, or hierarchic and holarchic.
And that's why I think that the pyramid turns up
in so many corporations and on the dollar bill
because that's the perfect symbol for hierarchy,
meaning this aggressive, masculine, phallic
ultimately psychopathic type of concept.
It is the traumatized, sociopathic, demented psychopathic
mind that perceives hierarchy.
It cannot see holarchy even if you pointed out to it.
Alright, like we said earlier,
it's a twilight zone situation.
It's a program.
It's a program. It keeps running.
The person who is not part of that,
who is on that directional, who is understanding
that he's a part of the world,
not apart from it, right.
Who understands that there's a perfect order
from the biggest neutron star
down to the subatomic level
who understands the miracle of the body no less,
you don't have to look further than your own body
for the miracle of that, the miracle of birth,
the miracle of the eye, the cells,
as Bruce Lipton has shown and incredible people
have worked on this concept.
What is all of this?
This is the idea that you do not need to
put earrings on the Mona Lisa.
You do not need to perfect what is perfect.
You do not need to fix what isn't broken.
But unfortunately that is a non,
that is a sane way of thinking
and you have the unsane person who will never,
ever in a million years, it's a feedback loop,
they can't see it, they will not see it.
They don't want to see it.
And this kind of psychopathic creature,
through these fraternities that exist today,
do end up at the top of the power pyramid.
The Masonic orders screen out the good men,
it's the reverse, it's the inverse of what
the Druids used to do.
The scum rises to the top.
And because these people are possessed.
The more corrupt and controllable.
Yeah, and because these individuals are collectivists,
and I mean this in the full Ayn Rand sense,
they are collectivists.
They have no individual identity,
they don't want one,
except on a superficial level to give you the idea
that they're all wonderful individuals.
Right.
They're not, they are extremely insecure people
who have a hive mentality.
The architecture of the hierarchy works for them,
going back full circle to the beginning of
what we started talking about.
It's an architecture of control but not power.
They have control but they don't have power.
Actually we have the power and until we wake up,
we're not going to realize this.
The holarchic model is a feminine model.
It is a yin model, it doesn't exclude
the masculine principles but it brings it into balance.
It merges with it. And we are seeing this now.
It's more receptive, it's more grassroots,
and it will not use hierarchical models to fix hierarchy.
You know, you're not using the same concepts,
you're not coming at it quite the same way.
And you're also, yourself not infected
with this mental virus that came about
as an extension of this fundamental trauma
that happened in ancient times.
It's holistic in nature.
Yeah. Absolutely. This is holistic in nature.
And do you see now that even in the quantum science,
if you look back thirty years,
you start to see how something's happening
where these paradigms are being reintroduced?
Yes. Very much so.
And the ancient arts that as you say
were considered part of the original healing arts,
such as feng shui and other things.
Exactly and as reprehensible as it was
in its own way, this dabbling in the '60s,
the guru thing, looking east.
Let's not look at all the pitfalls of it,
let's look at it broadly.
That again is a search.
In fact one could say even the rise of psychology.
The rise of the countercultural movement.
Trying to understand that division and pain.
I've always remarked in my world,
the rise of rock and roll and the paradigms of
certain bands and certain music is again
a seeking to find that wholeness.
Again, people fall into pitfalls, they may get distracted.
Again, lot of this is co-opted, again.
Because the Big Brother is very sensitive
to where humanity is going and it watches and watches
and it puts in its infiltrators to corrupt certain things.
Right in the middle of
the rock and roll industry.
Exactly. Country and western and all of that,
we know that, we're onto this.
But in the movies, in the films.
So the answer to your question is,
if we start using those, let's call it, let's say,
holarchic models in film, in radio, in communication.
If we start using the feminine model again
in our writing, you know.
There's many ways that this can be approached.
This will be a harkening back to the root
of what went wrong, to try and heal the trauma.
But again I'm not saying there's only one way.
I'm open to all possibilities.
There's lots of possibilities to bring about that healing.
In fact you're optimistic.
Some people would hear your work and say,
"Oh my gosh, if I weren't scared before, I am now,"
"because now I see the problem."
But in reality you are an optimist
and you're seeing the opportunity in cultures
such as the American culture
that is certainly number one in line for
being a victim, I don't like the word victim,
but a victim of the architects of control,
perhaps above all else because of what does come out
of this region of the world.
What do you see as the possibility
within that as well?
Well I'd like to address that very briefly.
Being from Europe and all,
I keep hearing, "Oh they've Americanized this,"
"they've Americanized that," you know.
And I always stop people and go,
"No, no, no, no, no."
"This is not coming out of America,"
"America's the first victim of"
"the corporatization of the world."
We're talking Blade Runner here, right.
Truly. Yeah.
This is a worldwide global corporate structure
that is an infection that America has just fallen first.
Well we obviously must have been
a desirable market to take.
And also a vulnerable market to take.
But how do you look at that?
Oh, I couldn't agree more and this comes out of
my article on the Constitution con
about how the Federalists from day one
were absolutely making sure
that they'd subvert the Articles of Confederation
and some of the other ideas, you know,
that would have brought the states together
and had a little bit more of an egalitarian system here.
That that was subverted from day one,
even by those people that are still considered
and taught in schools as Founding Fathers.
There's an incredible story there,
because the Tzar of Russia was watching,
South America was watching, a lot of eyes.
You know, people despised the royal system
that was coming out of Britain and the old world.
And unfortunately that crept in again later
with the federal orbs that we know now still run
out of the District of Columbia, the whole federal system,
they're back.
America is nothing more than a satellite of London.
The Americans, the federal system.
And yet there's something else.
There is something about America that makes it
very desirable to take down and control.
Because if you think about it,
you've got supposedly all the loose nuts rolled west.
Right, they say that within America, even the loose nuts,
the fruit and nuts all rolled to California even.
But were you talking about fruit and nuts,
you're talking about a very high degree
of creativity as well.
Yeah. That's right.
You're talking about people who are rogues,
free agents, at least in the origins, right?
So what happens when you have all these free agents
that have run away from the other structures
and now you control them?
I think Buckminster Fuller addressed it when he said,
"Before you can replace an outmoded, corrupt system,"
"you have to create something to replace it."
I would subdivide that and say,
if you see something rotten, dying, let it die.
So before you can create something new,
if there's something unjust, if there's something rotten
and corrupt and it's fading away, let it.
Let it.
I agree.
A lot of the countercultural people want to hustle
too quickly.
What are you doing?
You're trying to establish your Citadel as a freedom,
truth and justice over the ruins of what was?
Can you just wait until those get washed away first?
Otherwise you know the pestilence
of the rot might creep in.
So they're coming from a good point of view,
they're coming from a good understanding,
they're coming from very optimistic and passionate place,
but they're negating a very simple principle of nature.
There is a thing called the winter cycle.
There's a time when you leave a field fallow.
Where are we right now?
At that place. At that place.
We're in a catabolic cycle.
We're in the Shivaic cycle.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
Any holistic doctor knows you're going to have to
go through that purging period before the immunity rises.
All of the cells in the body
are constantly going through that.
Exactly. So it's no different in society.
We're all cells of the body politic,
we're all cells of the social hive,
if you want to call it that.
Always the great ideas will come from individual minds,
I'm not saying that.
But in a social setting, it's okay.
The Mayans saw four whole civilizations come and go.
Let's get real with this, you know. It happens.
And it's okay, in my book I'm a very catabolic,
I'm okay with deconstruction, always have been.
This is why people think my work is dark and pessimistic
and that's fine, they can think what they want.
But it's a misreading of my work.
It's because they have again not understood
that there is this holistic cycle
and it includes a purgation.
Look at alchemy. There's the incineration.
The purgation, the calcinatio, right,
phase before you can have the rejuvenation.
A deconstruction of letting go
of the structures that existed before
and we're now entering the winter.
What do you see as the opportunity there?
Well I don't myself to tell you the honest truth
limit the possibilities by even thinking about them.
I know that sounds crazy.
At that point it's like Mr. Spock.
Everything is possible, and there's all possibilities.
And don't even violate that field of possibility
by too much contemplation.
At least I don't, you know, because I like to keep
the field as open as possible.
So it's a fresh canvas really
for our creation, for what we can recover for ourselves,
what we can remember, we can create again.
And you feel that we're going to do that?
How do you feel this race of consciousness is going?
A great deal of civilization is recreation.
It's not really creation, it's recreation.
It's putting things together in a different way.
What happens is when the old structures fall,
there is a very insecure time for people
because they've grown so accustomed to that
through the conditioning we've talked about
and through just their simple own negation of self.
And because the self-murdered person is a slave.
He's already a person who is going to yield himself
to these forms of tyranny,
and in fact he might even be psychically
bringing that about.
Nine times out of ten in the alternative research,
quote on quote conspiracy movement,
most people are saying,
"What are those guys doing doing to us?"
What are these guys, you know,
up there on the other side of the hill
planning for us?
What have they got in store for us?
In my thinking it's about,
what have we done to create them?
Yes.
What's happening in the psyche
that we have brought that into being?
Not the other way around.
Indeed I think that is
the appropriate question, and even beyond that,
look at how much power we're giving to
the architects of control.
Certainly there has to be, that's not the final word
universally and interdimensionally.
There has to be something beyond that
by way of a much higher collective consciousness
that's occurring.
Maybe even cosmic collective consciousness.
How do you perceive that?
From again what I've learned from the Druidic culture,
why this is all happening is simply for man
to be perpetually okay with deconstruction.
That's his lesson.
You don't have to go into hypotheticals.
The very fact that he now needs to reunderstand
the Shiva, Shakti, Eros, Thanatos concept.
He's lost this, he's become inquisitive,
he's become yang, he's become aggressive.
Partly because as I said the people at the top
are themselves like that.
You see, the people who are this pathonogenic force,
who are this possessed or obsessed or psychopathic
or sadistic or whatever.
They don't like an organized world.
They talk a lot about order but actually they live
in internal disorder, right?
And they are deeply fragmented and traumatized
individuals, therefore they don't like order.
You mean natural order?
Natural cycles and order?
Yeah, it goes back to this feminine principle
as you're talking about.
There's flowing, mutable.
Remember the Hopi prophecy about letting go
of the ores, letting go of the banks, go with the flow,
that is lethal to those guys.
So that's why their into new world orders
and global villages, and surveillance societies,
and RFID chips and keeping you in line.
All of this stuff and one leash for one neck.
Their global villages, their pipe dream
is this masculine place in which everybody
is walking around like in the movie Equilibrium,
or various movies of beautifully, beautifully portrayed
this robotic creature going back even much further
movies have shown this.
Because they can not tolerate that level of spontaneity.
You see?
Yes. Because they can't control it.
And also they are lethally, they're solar,
remember, go back to Akhenaten,
they're solar worshippers, they don't like
the quote on quote darkness,
which in psychological terms again means sleep,
quiet, silence, mutability, right?
The endless possibility of exploration.
Looking deeply into something.
They want the super-lit, fluorescent-lit world,
and they're getting it, they built it.
But the collective consciousness
is waking up to that other side
and doing this deep exploration,
whether they like it or not, it's happening.
I see it, you see it,
we are obviously in a position to see this every day
just by the input that comes from around the world
into these websites for example.
What do you think is going to happen
in this race for consciousness?
Control versus natural order?
It will be, you know the forces of,
Blake said it in his poetry, Tennyson said it,
others have said it.
The forces of light and darkness are a braid,
they're twined together.
They're two sides of one coin.
So it's about how you balance all of these facets.
So man is growing up.
The good side is this ancient trauma is being healed,
the next step to that is that he then grows up.
He learns how to balance the feminine,
I actually talked about this a lot in one of the DVDs I did
on the divination and the goddess,
where what is man's real function if it's not technology?
You know, we explored this concept.
Basically the human race has some evolving to do.
Remember, trauma as you said freezes the memory.
It creates an amnesia about the past,
it creates uncertainty towards the future.
As the healing happens,
you're a bit more coherent even from a historical
point of view and you're less anxious about the future.
And that's beginning.
Right, Bo Gritz used to say,
Colonel James Bo Gritz used to say
that when you heal one thing, the mega thing,
lots of other things automatically heal by themselves.
And I definitely believe that.
He and I may disagree about what is the main thing
to be healed, but the metaphor is absolutely brilliant.
That once you get back to the fundamentals,
you don't really have to go around and
micromanage all the other stuff.
It will automatically blossom, you know, in its own way.
Are you seeing that blossoming
occurring now?
Yeah, no.
What's occurring now is the culling and the pruning.
Right, the removal of the dead weight.
It's Shiva now. Shiva's in town.
And of course that will be threatening
for a lot of people.
But what can I do about it?
You can't stop the winter,
you know the old story about King Canute,
sitting in front of the ocean trying to stop the waves.
If people want to do that, it will make good comedy,
go ahead.
But I'd rather you spent the time
getting with this principle of deconstruction
because it's going to happen.
It's happening in your life, it's happening at work,
it's happening in your relationships.
It's unavoidable, so you either get with it,
or you fight against it and potentially drown in the river.
Because that flow is going on.
That to me is the essence of all yoga is balance.
It's the nagual and the tonal,
the prolific and the devouring,
it is this whole emergence so that
the extremes come together.
Maybe it even will be,
see remember hierarchy is not all together bad.
In certain areas of life you require the hierarchy.
Especially if you're trying to establish something.
But the hierarchies of the world brotherhood
have become only that, and you can see that
in their degree ceremonies and the fraternity
structure that they have, it becomes completely
a sort of accentuated or overly done.
And the holarchy might also have aspects
that are not so hot.
So again we have to look at that.
But the ultimate thing is we've swung so much to one side,
that potentially now we have the chance
to get back into balance, I think that's what's happening.
Man has had that chance many times.
If he resists it perpetually then the forces of nature
come in to do it for you.
So that's why there's a little bit more of a heat,
there's a little bit more of a--
There's an urgency. We can feel it.
There's an urgency, I agree. That's the way to put it.
There's a bit more urgency.
And that's fine by me, that can happen
in any modality of life.
Sometimes you need that Sergeant Major
to get you all into line, get you up and into uniform,
so to speak, so.
I've not a problem with that because
I come from that tradition, you know what I mean?
But I do understand where other people maybe
have a problem with that.
Secondary to that and extremely important though
is the continuing process of simple education.
Because they want you to be a media-drenched creature,
they want you to be a soundbyte person,
they don't want you to have a beginning,
middle and end to this, or a historical perspective.
And you get into this huge land
of architects that control the DVD.
Yeah, big time.
And the whole idea of the editing, you know,
and the fragmentation that takes place.
So what we do is we're very aware of the choir
that knows a bit about this
and the newcomers who maybe don't,
and the continuing process of education
because you cannot have transformation
until you first have the education.
And that's two-fold, must know about the problem,
must define the problem correctly,
in the same way that a holistic doctor has to define
what is wrong with you.
You know, there's no point looking at the eyes
when the problem is in the heart or whatever.
So find out where the real problems are,
diagnose it correctly, and then apply the right salve.
So this is what's going on.
And again, it's not one thread,
not one person has the answer.
There's people who want to territorialize
this kind of knowledge now,
especially fundamental types who think
that they suddenly, they own it or something,
they own this knowledge.
They can't understand that there's many tents.
It's organic, it's springing up
from every source.
Exactly and I describe it often as having many
encampments or tents on the field of battle.
Yes.
And we all have our banners and we all respect that.
But we don't need to be fighting amongst ourselves
when we've got a common enemy.
And I've really very little tolerance for people
who come into this alternative movement
who come in with that bigotry,
because there's no place here.
And in fact you might even be part of the problem
at that point, you see.
And in fact, you might be put there.
There's a lot of these individuals are financed
to precisely act as agent provocateurs
and fifth columnists to destroy any kind of flow, you see.
Absolutely. Lots of that.
So we have questions about that as well.
But ultimately, as I said earlier on,
evil contains within it, the seeds of its own destruction.
So its ending will be a very magical thing.
You don't take it on by using the tools and weapons
it provides.
And that includes politics.
In order to destroy Big Brother or this Orwellian creature,
probably wouldn't want to try doing that with the weapons
it's created for you to do it.
What do we do it with?
Well you do it by strengthening your knowledge,
immunity, in that sense, intellectual immunity,
moral immunity, spiritual immunity of course.
All of the above if possible.
So that you are so strong that no matter what they do,
they can't defeat you.
At that point you've won,
it's a principle I've learned from Bruce Lee
from Krishnamurthy, you know, from studying martial arts,
from holistic therapy.
When you are so strong that your enemy
cannot destroy you, you have won.
It's jeet kune do, it's akito.
That was also part of
the ancient Druidic civilization.
Precisely, it was. It was an absolute key part of that.
So in summary,
what do you see, I mean I don't want you to have to
go do a psychic journey into the future,
but what do you see?
The people say we're in a race against the clock
so to speak, to wake up,
versus to be in a hypnogogic state where we can be
completely controlled.
What do you see?
Well I see that again that it will be a dance.
As the awakening process continues,
the injectors of the lie are going to amp that up,
and step that up, and it will be a race to the finish.
What I do see is that if, and this is basically
the raison d'etre of my work,
if you keep leaving consciousness at the door,
and I mean those who think they're doing
some positive work here,
if you perpetually keep leaving consciousness at the door,
then I would have some problems with the future.
And this is unfortunately being done.
As I said, the ultimate war is a war on the psyche.
Co-opting the trauma, adding more,
co-opting the fact that man is disabled
and firm, fragmented, psychotic, right?
Sadistic, self-sadistic, needing approval, all of the above.
If you have this kind of fragmented weak and firm mind,
and this war is targeted on this,
and this includes the vaccinations
and the addictive substances
and the psychotropics, all of it,
the mind control in the media, you name it.
It's a war on consciousness.
If the movement towards truth, freedom, and justice
can take that on board and get back to this understanding
of don't leave consciousness at the door,
understand that it's a war on consciousness,
then I think there will be some positive evolution
in this journey.
In the end, you're an optimist.
I am an optimist, yeah. Absolutely, you know.
As they say you can be a pessimist about tomorrow
but you can be an optimist about the day after tomorrow.
(laughs) Perfectly put.
Michael, thank you so much for your time.
You're most welcome.
I waited three years to get together
with you in the flesh and it's been a total delight.
You have a lovely energy.
Thank you, it was my pleasure.
For a much deeper look into the Irish origins
of civilization, you can go to Michael's website
at michaeltsarion.com
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.